reference: add documentation for statement summary (#1588)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/performance/statement-summary.md

---
title: Statement Summary Table
summary: Learn about Statement Summary Table in TiDB
category: reference
---

# Statement Summary Table

> To better handle SQL performance related issues, MySQL has provided [statement summary tables](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/statement-summary-tables.html) in `performance_schema` to monitor SQL with statistics. Among these tables, `events_statements_summary_by_digest` is very useful in locating SQL problems with its abundant fields that include latency, execution times, rows scanned, full table scans, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better handle SQL performance related issues, MySQL has provided [statement summary tables](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/statement-summary-tables.html) in `performance_schema` to monitor SQL with statistics. Among these tables, `events_statements_summary_by_digest` is very useful in locating SQL problems with its abundant fields such as latency, execution times, rows scanned, full table scans, etc.
```

TiDB provides the support for the `events_statements_summary_by_digest`

> table in v3.04. In this document, you will learn about this feature, and how to troubleshoot SQL performance issues with it.

Reviewer: Starting from v3.0.4, TiDB provides the support for the `events_statements_summary_by_digest` table. In this document, you will learn about this feature, and how to troubleshoot SQL performance issues with it.

## Introduction

`events_statement_summary_by_digest` is a system table in `performance_schema`. As indicated by the name, it groups the SQL statements by digests, and provides statistics for each SQL group.

> The "digest" here means the same as used in slow logs, which is a unique identifier calculated through normalized SQL statements. The normalization process ignores constant, blank symbols, and is case insensitive. Therefore, statements with consistent syntaxes will be grouped as one category. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "digest" here means the same as used in slow logs, which is a unique identifier calculated through normalized SQL statements. The normalization process ignores constant, blank characters, and is case insensitive. Therefore, statements with consistent syntaxes will be grouped as one category. For example:
```

| DIGEST            | The digest of the SQL statement                   |
| DIGEST_TEXT       | Normalized SQL statement              |
| EXEC_COUNT        | Total execution times of SQL statements of this category   |
| SUM_LATENCY       | Total execution latency (ns) of SQL statements of this category  |
| MAX_LATENCY       | Maximum latency (ns) of SQL statements of this category  |
| MIN_LATENCY       | Minimum latency (ns) of SQL statements of this category|
| AVG_LATENCY       | Average latency (ns) of SQL statements of this category |
| SUM_ROWS_AFFECTED | Rows impacted by SQL statements of this category |
| FIRST_SEEN        | Duration of the first execution for SQL statements of this category|
| LAST_SEEN         |  Duration of the last execution for SQL statements of this category|
| QUERY_SAMPLE_TEXT | The original SQL statement where SQL statements of this category firstly appeared |

## Troubleshooting examples

This section shows how to use the statement summary feature to troubleshoot SQL performance issues using two sample questions.

### Could high SQL latency be caused by the server end?

> In this example, the client shows slow performance with point queries on the employee table. We can perform a fuzzy search by SQL texts:

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the client shows slow performance with point queries on the employee table. We can perform a fuzzy query using SQL digest text:
```

> In this example, the client shows slow performance with point queries on the employee table. We can perform a fuzzy query using SQL digest text:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the client shows slow performance with point queries on the employee table. You can perform a fuzzy query using SQL digest text:
```

```sql
SELECT avg_latency, exec_count, query_sample_text
    FROM performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest
    WHERE digest_text LIKE ‘select * from employee%’;
```

> As shown in the result below, `avg_latency` of 1ms and 0.3ms are in the normal range. Therefore, we conclude that the server end is not the cause, and continue the troubleshooting with the client or the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the result below, `avg_latency` of 1ms and 0.3ms are in the normal range. Therefore, you can conclude that the server end is not the cause, and continue the troubleshooting with the client or the network.
```

```
+-------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
| avg_latency | exec_count | query_sample_text                        |
+-------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
|     1042040 |          2 | select * from employee where name='eric' |
|      345053 |          3 | select * from employee where id=3100     |
+-------------+------------+------------------------------------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> ### Which category of SQL statements c longest total time consumption?

Author: ```suggestion
### Which categories of SQL statements consume the longest total time?
```

> To fine tune the system, we can find out the 3 categories of SQL statements with the longest time consumption:

Author: ```suggestion
To tune the system, we can find out the top 3 categories of SQL statements with the longest time consumption:
```

> To tune the system, we can find out the top 3 categories of SQL statements with the longest time consumption:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tune the system, you can find out the top 3 categories of SQL statements with the longest time consumption:
```

```sql
SELECT sum_latency, avg_latency, exec_count, query_sample_text
    FROM performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest
    ORDER BY sum_latency DESC LIMIT 3;
```

> The result shows that the following three SQL categories consume the longest time in total, which require focus in optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result shows that the following three SQL categories consume the longest time in total, which require a focus on optimization.
```

Author: "require  a focus" sounds weird to me, although it's a countable noun.

```
+-------------+-------------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sum_latency | avg_latency | exec_count | query_sample_text                                                     |
+-------------+-------------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|     7855660 |     1122237 |          7 | select avg(salary) from employee where company_id=2013                |
|     7241960 |     1448392 |          5 | select * from employee join company on employee.company_id=company.id |
|     2084081 |     1042040 |          2 | select * from employee where name='eric'                              |
+-------------+-------------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Configurations

The statement summary feature is disabled by default. You can enable it by setting a system variable, for example:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```

```sql
set global tidb_enable_stmt_summary = true;
```

> The `tidb_enable_stmt_summary` system variable has two scopes - global and session, which work a little differently from other system variables:

Author: ```suggestion
The `tidb_enable_stmt_summary` system variable has two scopes - global and session, which work a little differently from other system variables, as described below:
```

- Set the global variable to apply to the cluster immediately.
- Set the session variable to apply to the current TiDB server immediately. This is useful when you debug on a single TiDB server instance.

> - The session variable has a higher read priority. The global variable  will be read only if no session variable is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The session variable has a higher read priority. The global variable will be read only if no session variable is set.
```

- Set the session variable to a blank string to re-read the global variable.

> The statistics in the system table will be cleared if the statement summary feature is disabled, and will be re-calculated next time the feature is enabled. Tests have shown that enabling this feature has little impact on performance.

Author: ```suggestion
The statistics in the system table will be cleared if the statement summary feature is disabled, and will be re-calculated next time the statement summary feature is enabled. Tests have shown that enabling this feature has little impact on performance.
```

> `events_statements_summary_by_digest` is a memory table. To prevent potential memory issues, we need to limit the number of statements to be saved and the longest SQL display length. You can configure these limits using the following parameters under [stmt-summary] of config.toml:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`events_statements_summary_by_digest` is a memory table. To prevent potential memory issues, we need to limit the number of statements to be saved and the longest SQL display length. You can configure these limits using the following parameters under `[stmt-summary]` of `config.toml`:
```

- `max-stmt-count` limits the number of SQL categories that can be saved. The default value is 100. If the set limit is exceeded, the most recent SQL statements that remain unused will be removed.
- `max-sql-length` specifies the longest display length of `DIGEST_TEXT` and `QUERY_SAMPLE_TEXT`. The default value is 4096.

> **Note:**
>

> > It is suggested that you adjust the configuration of this two parameters based on your actual scenarios. However, too large values are not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It is suggested that you adjust the configuration of these two parameters based on your actual scenarios. However, setting them to too large values is not recommended.
```
